\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo -*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename 3D_Viewer_manual
@settitle 3D_Viewer_v2.0
@c %**end of header

@copying
This tutorial is for the implementation of the 3D Viewer, version 2.0.
A program for visualizing 3D wireframe models.


Copyright @copyright{} 2023 hankmagg, boomergo, jacquelc.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title 3D_Viewer_v2.0
@subtitle A program for visualizing 3D wireframe models
@author jacquelc, hankmagg, boomergo


@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction
@top 3D_Viewer_v2.0
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex


@menu
* Introduction :: 
* Installation::
* Visualization of models::
* Settings::
* Creating images::
@end menu

@node Introduction, Installation, Top
@chapter Introduction
This is the implementation of the education project of School21 - 3D Viewer. 

The program provide the ability to:
@enumerate
@item Load a wireframe model from an obj file (vertices and surfaces list support only).
@item Translate the model by a specified distance in relation to the X, Y, Z axes.
@item Rotate the model by a specified angle relative to its X, Y, Z axes.
@item Scale the model by a specified value.
@item Customizing the type of projection (parallel and central).
@item Setting the color, type and width of facet, color, display method and size of vertex.
@item Background color selection.
@item Saving captured (rendered) images as bmp and jpeg files.
@end enumerate

@node Installation
@chapter Installation

The installation is done with the console command 'make install'. 
You must be in the 'src' directory of this project for the command to work. 
The build will be placed in the 'build' directory created in 'src'.

The uninstalling is done with the console command 'make uninstall'.

@node Visualization of models
@chapter Visualization of models

The program allows you to upload 3d models in obj format. Visualization of only vertices and faces is supported. 
To load a model click 'open' button and select the obj format file.

After loading the model you can specify the distance to move the model (relative to the x, y, z axes), 
the angle to rotate the model (relative to the x, y, z axes), or the value to scale the model.

It is possible to rotate the model with mouse.

@node Settings
@chapter Settings

After loading the model you can change: 
@enumerate
@item Type of projection (parallel and central).
@item Color (black, yellow, purple), type (solid, dashed) and width (from 1 to 10) of facet
@item Color (black, yellow, purple), display method (none, circle, square) and size (from 1 to 10) of vertex.
@item Background color (black, white, green).
@end enumerate

To apply the settings click the 'apply settings' button.

To change the settings to default click the 'default settings' button and apply the settings.

The settings selected before closing the program will be saved and loaded the next time you start.

@node Creating images
@chapter Creating images

To save the image select the format (bmp or jpeg) and click 'save image'. 
The program will prompt you to enter a name for the image and choose extension.

@bye
